### Peer-to-peer (P2P) lending has gain tremendous popularity in the last decade. The traditional banking is rigid and time-consuming, and largely would not make loans less than fifty thousand dollars to individuals. This paved the way for peer-to-peer lending which connects personal borrowers and lenders through an online platform that facilitates a loan with an amount normally deemed too small by the traditional banks. It provides an alternative for borrower to get funds with an acceptable interest rate, and for lenders to invest their spare funds to earn higher interest rate with certain credit risk.
### The popular P2P platforms in US include Lending Club, Peerform, CircleBack Lending, and etc. Lending Club has issued over $36 billion loans as of 2019, and is the first publicly traded company in the P2P industry. The loan process starts with the prospect borrower filing an application, providing information such as the loan purpose, loan amount, income and employment, and etc. Lend Club undertakes a vetting process and grades the loan to a certain risk level and loan interest rate, then makes the loan available to investors. The investors have exposure to default risk, the higher the loan interest rate the higher the default risk, as a given portion of borrowers will be late in payments and default on their principal. Therefore, investors need to carefully select the loans in order to minimize default risk and maintain a higher return.
### This project will use the data publicly available on lendingclub.com and aims to predict the default risk for individual loan at the time of loan issuance with the information provided by the borrowers and loan grading by Lending Club. The investing strategy can be to pick the lower default risk loans within given risk grade to achieve above average return.
